Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be creating a lobby area like this one here very empty and spacious.
But what we're going to do is that from this lobby we'll be able to execute commands such as the host
command and this whole command is going to take us in to the game as the hosting server or the client
server which will allow other users to then come in and join this server.
In fact let me just show you an example of that.
Here I am loading in another client to connect in with my first server and my first client.
And let's see how that looks.
Here we go.
Success.
We manage to host from within the game.
That's where you can learn to do in this lecture.
Let's dive in and see how.
So for starters with and joining and hosting we don't really want our users to be spawning in to this
level where they're going to be playing.
That's just a little bit confusing especially when they are born in they're on their own.
It kind of looks like something went wrong.
So let's start off by creating a lobby for our players to spawn up into and then from there they can
execute the console clones to go and host a server or join a server.
So that kind of makes a bit more sense doesn't it as go into the content browser go up to the top of
that content browser go to the puzzle platforms and add a new level here.
In fact let's first add a new folder.
Call it maps.
And in the maps folder we are going to add a let's see a level call it lobbying.
And then it can open up said lobby.
So being a selected level as we go and you can see it's all black at the moment so maybe we want to
copy across a few of the things from our other level first and let's go back it up.
Down to the third person cvp Maps third person example.
And let's see what do I want to import from here.
And I want all the lighting and stuff.
So actually what might be slightly simpler is to start off with a copy of this level so I'm going to
backtrack just a little bit and we are going to duplicate the third person example map.
I'm going to call it the lobby.
I am going to move that up to root of my content by click and drag or expanding out the side first and
then clicking and dragging.
Or better yet let's expand out puzzle platforms and put it where we intend to put it so let's go to
maps delete the lobby that I just made.
Backtracking just a little bit and move the lobby from the third person cvp Maps to puzzle platform
maps.
Let's move it there.
And we've got ourselves a lobby which we can go ahead and open up saving the selected.
And obviously it looks the same except I'm going to strip it bare.
So what we're going to do is take all of these areas.
And delete them.
All right moving platforms that lovely moving platforms go ahead and delete them.
Make sure you are in the lobby as it can't tell.
Up here that I am.
Yeah.
I don't want to delete them though it's got references and so on and so forth.
And I'm just going make it really clear that they are in the lobby first by putting our place start
a little bit closer to the centre and pointing it at this text on the floor that says third person at
the moment.
It's going to be turned in to saying lobby.
So they clearly know that they are in the right sort of area.
So where do we have that text.
Little bit hard to get hold of.
We've got a floor.
We've got the war.
Text render actor that's the one.
Now I'm sure I can change the text that we get.
I can change that to a lobby.
So now if I go and play in this level you can see that I am in the lobby and I can get rid of that help
actor if possible because that doesn't seem very helpful.
We've got nothing there.
Go ahead and hit play that we are in the lobby.
It's quite clear that we're in the lobby.
So we would then be able to execute our consul commands from and here's this thing like host for example
they go.
I'm able to host.
Well except I'm not.
So that's the next bit to be able to actually implement hosting to host.
We have to be able to travel between maps.
Now let's take a little time to overview what it means to actually travel between maps.
Let's take a look at this slide so we've got a map here.
Here I have literally taken that analogy to mean the map of Europe and what happens is through some
process which you're going to look at in the next lecture.
Bit by bit player controllers will connect you to the map.
So one at a time.
A couple may join in and we've got three players all playing around in the same map.
Now what can happen is that the server can execute a command called server travel and say oh there's
another map I want you all to move over there server travel to map them the two in this case Africa.
Okay.
And now when that happens all the servers one by one have to reconnect to the new map and move themselves
in to the new map.
So the controllers don't get destroyed they just get moved in to a new map and that map gets loaded
on each of the individual clients if they're collected over the network and everyone gets is happy.
In the new place.
So that's what we want to do.
We want to have a server travel.
Now how is server travelling done that's Have a look of go over to our visual studio.
And the place we're going want to do this is in the host for now we're going to be adding to the bottom
here rather than overwriting a screen message we want to keep a screen message there.
Server Travelling is a function of the world that we're on.
So we're going to have to get hold of the world.
So it's you world is the type of the world going to get oh you well pointer for world.
And again that's going to equal to get world now get world can see return null As is something that
we always need to be worried about with pointers so I'm going to do a null check and early return just
like soap.
And now from that world pointer we can use the arrow operator to do a server travel.
Now for me I didn't need to include any headers.
Because it seems to be included already so we can do a server travel.
What is in that server travel let's go and have a look at that.
So over in the chrome I've got the new world server travel now it takes in a U R L and also whether
it should be absolute and whether it should skip game notify.
Well these first two the second two rather are defaulting or ready to send values so all we need to
provide it with is a U R L.
So that you are real is exactly the same form as we were giving on the command line.
It starts with game.
And then so would vanish.
Game forward slash and then it's the U R L to your map which in our case let's go and reference that
it is third person C P P E forward slash maps forward slash third person example map.
Okay.
And that's the u r l.
So hopefully what this will do is travel us from our lobby to this other map.
Let's go ahead and build and see if it does what is intended.
So the build has successfully completed.
Let's go over to the UN real Ed and play in our lobby.
Okay here we are.
Now let's type in the host command.
And sure enough we are spawned in to our third person example map exactly as we would expect.
And what's going on in the background is that our player controllers being reconnected to the sample
map here.
Fantastic.
Okay so the point here though is not just to move into the example map it's Daschle host a game.
So how do we host a server using this example of travelling.
Well that's actually all done through the u r l.
You may have noticed that there isn't a command line.
There isn't an argument in server travel that says I want to be the host of this game that's actually
done as part of the year or else so let's take a look at what that means here.
There is a section on the command line arguments in the in real documentation on you are real parameters.
Now notice this little bit that we've got games maps and then question mark listen.
And this is part of the server options down here.
There are a few other server options as well such as is LAN match.
A is from invite a spectator only at the moment.
We are interested in listen which is specify a server as a licence server.
By this it means that you are a game that is playing but also listening to other people and that's what
we need to make as open for connections from the outside world.
Okay so let's go on over.
In two visual studio and put on the argument for listen like so and build and then give that a shot
build complete.
Let's go back in to unreel and play.
And we can go ahead and host.
And what you'll see is something not entirely different to what we saw before.
So now it's going to be a challenge to test that out both with listen and without.
Listen let's give that a shot.
What's your challenge definition.
Well it's to test hosting.
You're going to do that by well hosting a server just as I did by using the host command in the editor.
Then connect using a standalone game using basically exactly the same way as you would have connected
via IP address before.
And just try it out without the listen.
Argument in the U R L and see what happens so pause a video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
Let's dive right into this so I am going to go ahead and spawn up our server in unreel so going to type
in the host command and hosts are now hosting apparently.
So let's go ahead and create a standalone game and try and join in.
So I'm going to do this actually with power shell so power shell is very much like a command prompt
on Windows.
Now Mac this is.
You don't have.
This isn't relevant because you are a Mac.
Turmoil is already super fantastic anyway but command print on Windows is a little bit rubbish.
So power chelles just a little bit better.
And I didn't introduce to this at first because it has a few more complications but one of the nice
things about it is that it lets you scroll back through your history of commands so you don't have to
go typing them in every single time.
So here for example I've got a history of running my game with a log.
And with a map and you'll notice there's just one syntactic difference between power shell and command
prompt and that is that the command has to begin with the ampersand with B and symbol.
That's just a weird quirk.
Don't worry about the details of what this might mean.
It's really not super super important.
Okay so what I can do now is I can edit that command and just remove the map and replace that map with
the local IP address 1 and 2 not 1 6 8 for me 1 99.
Your IP address may vary and I am going to launch that up to connect in that to our listeners server
that is hosting in the editor.
Here comes the game lets see whether its worked well.
Im very excited.
Here I am.
And is my other dude.
Look it doesn't look like we have ended up in the same place.
Well if we take a look at the log for the client and you'll notice that what we've got here is a warning
saying travel failure failed to load package and then you'll notice the map is a bit messed up by this.
P eyes zero string okay what could be going on there.
Well I reckon the issue is probably that we are mixing something playing in the editor with a standalone
game so let's try and do these both as standalone games.
So what I'm going to do is launch up a game that is in our lobby so it's going to be forward slash game
forward slash puzzles or platforms.
Forward slash maps.
Forward slash lobby.
Let's load that up.
And here it comes.
See if we are indeed in the lobby.
No we're not.
So it hasn't actually loaded up the map that I would expect it to.
Let's go and see why that is.
Has it given us any warnings while trying to load up the map.
Go up near the top.
No no no warnings there.
We're going back into unreal.
It does look like our lobby is actually not saved so let's make sure that we save the lobby.
These are all issues that you might run into.
So just running through them here.
And let's try launching up hour after closing down the game.
First let's go and try and launch up again that game with the lobby.
Okay this time had more luck.
We're actually in the lobby this time so I'm going to open up the console and host.
Okay.
So this guy is now hosting.
Let's launch up another game this time try.
This time we'll connect in rather than launching up a map.
Well let's see whether it's working as intended and we're actually going to connect in together.
Okay.
More like this time as you can see there are now two of us in this map and we are sharing the same map.
And as you can see the one that had hosted is here.
And the other one is the one that we connected in.
So this has worked.
There was an issue when trying to do it hosting one from the editor and the other one joining in so
that we can't easily combine.
That's a good learning that we can't easily combine Ed hosted and non-edited to host it.
And then I would like you to go ahead and just try without the list option what you find is that they
won't actually connect in together because one of them won't actually be a listening server.
So that's also a useful thing for you to see.
Okay so that's great.
We've now created a mechanism to host from within the game the next lecture we're going to create the
mechanism to join from within the game.
So I'm looking forward to seeing you in that next year.